# What is Spring?
 - Nontrivial application has many components, when it runs, those components need to be created and introduced to each other.
 - Spring offers a _container_, referred as **Spring Application Context**. Context manages this components, that are called **beans**. Context wires them together.
 - Wiring beans is based on **Dependency Injection (DI)** pattern. We can inject through constructor, setter or other method.
 - Dependency-injected application relies on container to create and maintain all components, inject them into other components, that need them.
 **Example**: `InventoryService` is injected into `ProductService` via a constructor argument. 
 _XML configuration:_
```xml
<bean id="inventoryService"
      class="com.example.InventoryService" /> 

<bean id="productService"
      class="com.example.ProductService" /> 
 <constructor-arg ref="inventoryService" />
</bean>
 ```
 _Java-based Configuration_
 ```java
@Configuration
public class ServiceConfiguration { 

	 @Bean
	 public InventoryService inventoryService() { 
	    return new InventoryService();
	 } 

	 @Bean
	 public ProductService productService() { 
	   return new ProductService(inventoryService());
	 }
}
 ```
 `@Configuration` annotation - this class is a configuration class and it will provide beans to the Spring Application Context
 `@Bean` annotation - this method is configuration method: it returns an object, that should be added to application context. ^37c6f1
 - _Automatic configuration_ -> _autowiring_ and _component scanning_. 
 - _Component scanning_: discover components from application's classpath and create them as beans in the Spring application context. 
 - _Autowiring_: automatically inject the components with the other beans that they depend on.
 - **Spring Boot**: helps to make autoconfiguration.
