# Examining the Spring project structure
The project is created via Maven.
- _mvnw_ and _mvnw.cmd_ - wrapper scripts. Can build project using them, even without Maven installed.
- _pom.xml_ - Maven build specification.
- _TacoCloudApplication.java_ - Spring Boot main class that bootstraps the project.
- _application.properties_ - place where to specify configuration properties.
- _static_ - folder for static content (images, stylesheets ...)
- _templates_ - folder for files for rendering content to the browser. 
-  _TacoCloudApplicationTests.java_ - test class, ensures that application loads successfully.
## Maven build specification
- Parent element:
```xml
<parent>
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId> <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
	<version>2.5.3</version> 
	<relativePath />
</parent>
```
Helps to manage many dependencies using only Spring Boot version.
- Dependencies: all that were in checkboxes when creating project + for tests.
- _starter_ in dependencies artifact ID. Starter don't have any library code itself, but  transitively pull in other libraries. With them, build file is smaller, you don't need to think about libs names (only their capabilities), you don't need to worry about lib versions.
-  _Spring Boot plugin_. It helps to run the app with Maven, ensures that all dependencies are in executable JAR file and available on the runtime classpath, produces manifest file in JAR file, that denotes bootstrap class as the main class for JAR.
## Bootstrap class
This is class will be executed when JAR file is run.
```java
package tacos; 

import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;  
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;

@SpringBootApplication
public class TacoCloudApplication { 

	public static void main(String[] args) {
		 SpringApplication.run(TacoCloudApplication.class, args);
	} 
}
```
`@SpringBootApplication` - this annotation says, that this class is Spring Boot Application. This is a composite annotation, that contains:
- `@SpringBootConfiguration` - designates: this class is configuration class. This is specialized form of `@Configuration` annotation [[What is Spring?#^37c6f1]]. 
- `@EnableAutoConfiguration` - tells Spring Boot to automatically configure any components that it thinks we'll need.
- `@ComponentScan` - lets to decare classes with annotations like `@Component`, `@Controller`, `@Service` and Spring will automatically discover them and register in the Spring Application Context
`main()` method calls `run()` method - bootstrapping of the app. Configuration class passed to the run() is not necessary same as bootstrap class.
## Running from command line
Building and running from command line: 
```bash
$ ./mvnw package
...
$ java -jar target/taco-cloud-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

or with Spring Boot Maven Plugin:
```bash
$ ./mvnw spring-boot:run
```
## Test class
```java
package com.example.tacocloud;  
  
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;  
import org.springframework.boot.test.context.SpringBootTest;  
  
@SpringBootTest  
class TacoCloudApplicationTests {  
  
     @Test  
	 void contextLoads() {}  
}
```
- Test `contextLoad()` checks that application context can be loaded successfully.
- `@SpringBootTest`- tells JUnit to bootstrap the test with Spring Boot capabilities. Composite annotation: it is annotated with `@ExtendWith (SpringExtension.class)` - add Spring capabilities to JUnit 5. 
- Test is empty, but annotations are working, and if there is a problem with loading context, the test fails.
- Run test in command line:
```bash
$ ./mvnw test
```
